Episode 15, Elizabeth.
There was still no direct flight from London to Ankhaz.
This meant that, once again, we needed to fly to Vladivostok
first and then catch a connecting flight from there.
George and I were sitting at Heathrow Airport, waiting
for our flight and dreading the long journey ahead.
George seemed more gung-ho about the whole thing than I
did, even though I was looking forward to seeing Miki.
“What we have here,” he told me, “is a chance to help shape history.
If Miki is heading down the wrong path… and it’s still an ‘if’ to me… if he
is heading down the wrong path, then we have a chance to set him straight.
“But I trust him and he needs us,” he added.
“We’ll be doing the right thing; I’m sure of it.”
I nodded my head and thought about it for a minute.
George was right – we’d have a chance to shape history, from the sidelines.
And perhaps we could save our friend… from himself.
Just then, my phone dinged.
A notification.
“You’d better check it,” George said, “We’re boarding in just a moment.”
It was a text message from one of my coworkers.
READ THIS it said in capital letters, underneath a link to a social media page.
I clicked on the link and the headline jumped out at me: MAN ESCAPES FROM ANKHAZASTAN PRISON HELL.
“Look at this,” I told George and showed it to him.
A political dissident escaped from a prison in Ankhazastan and managed
to flee the country on Friday by sneaking onto a Russian transport plane.
He then turned up at the Swedish Embassy in Moscow, asking for safe passage to Europe.
Photos of the man show his face beaten black and blue.
His crime, according to the man, was snatching a bag
of potatoes to prevent his family from going hungry.
It was accompanied by a picture of a man who had obviously been beaten up.
At the bottom of the article, there was a button that
said “read more” with a link and I started to click on it.
“ Wait,” said George.
“Look carefully at the link.
BBCNEWSNOW.UK.
That’s a fake news website.
The real site is BBC.CO.UK.”
“ Ah, good spot,” I said.
“It’s a fake website, but is the news fake?
I mean, that’s a real photo.”
“I’m not sure what to think,” George said, “but I trust Miki.”
“The Russians have an old saying,” I told George, “Doveryay, no proveryay - trust, but verify.”
However, before we could verify the news, our flight began boarding.
There was no internet access on the flight and no wifi signal when we got to Vladivostok airport.
With heavy hearts, we boarded the flight that would take us to Anhazastan.